The JETSPIN README File                                                 
Version 1.20 (December 2015)                                               
                                                                        
JETSPIN is a specific-purpose open-source software for electrospinning  
simulations of nanofibers. The code was originally written by           
Marco Lauricella at Applicazioni del Calcolo "Mauro Picone" -           
Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche with contributions from:             
Ivan Coluzza             University of Vienna              Austria      
Dario Pisignano          University of Salento             Italy        
Giuseppe Pontrelli       IAC-CNR, Rome                     Italy        
Sauro Succi              IAC-CNR, Rome                     Italy        
                                                                        
The software development process has received funding from the          
European Research Council under the European Union's Seventh Framework  
Programme (FP/2007-2013)/ERC Grant Agreement n. 306357 (NANO-JETS).     
                                                                        
This is an experimental code. The authors accept no responsibility      
for the performance of the code or for the correctness of the results.  
                                                                        
The code is licensed under Open Software License v. 3.0 (OSL-3.0).      
                                                                        
If results obtained with this code are published, an appropriate        
citation would be:                                                      
                                                                        
Marco Lauricella, Giuseppe Pontrelli, Ivan Coluzza, Dario Pisignano,    
Sauro Succi, JETSPIN: A specific-purpose open-source software for       
electrospinning simulations of nanofibers, Computer Physics 
Communications, 197 (2015), pp. 227-238.                                             
                                                                        
Structure                                                               
                                                                        
JETSPIN is supplied as a main UNIX directory with 4 subdirectories.     
All the source code files are contained in the source sub-directory.    
The examples sub-directory contains different test cases that can help  
the user to edit new input files. For further details on the input      
directives the reader is referred to the article:                       
                                                                        
Marco Lauricella, Giuseppe Pontrelli, Ivan Coluzza, Dario Pisignano,    
Sauro Succi, JETSPIN: A specific-purpose open-source software for       
electrospinning simulations of nanofibers, Submitted to Computer        
Physics Communications, 2015.                                           
                                                                        
Compiling JETSPIN                                                       
                                                                        
The build sub-directory stores a UNIX makefile that assembles the       
executable versions of the code both in serial and parallel version     
with different compilers. Note that JETSPIN may be compiled on any      
UNIX platform. The makefile should be copied (and eventually modified   
for several common workstations and parallel computers) into the        
source sub-directory, where the code is compiled and linked. Finally,   
the binary executable file can be run in the execute sub-directory,     
which isintended to be the 'working' directory from which jobs are      
submitted for execution and the data files manipulated. A list of       
targets for several common workstations and parallel computers can be    
used by the command "make target", where target is one of the           
following options:                                                      
gfortran      ---> compile in serial mode using the GFortran compiler.  
gfortran-mpi  ---> compile in serial mode using the GFortran compiler   
                   under the command-line interface Cygwin for Windows.  
cygwin        ---> compile in serial mode using the GFortran compiler   
                   under the command-line interface Cygwin for Windows.  
cygwin-mpi    ---> compile in parallel mode using the GFortran compiler  
                   and the Open Mpi library under the command-line      
                   interface Cygwin for Windows (note a precompiled     
                   package of the Open Mpi library is already available  
                   on Cygwin).                                          
intel         ---> compile in serial mode using the Intel compiler.     
intel-mpi     ---> compile in parallel mode using the Intel compiler    
                   and the Intel Mpi library.                           
intel-openmpi ---> compile in parallel mode using the Intel compiler    
                   and the Open Mpi library.                            
help          ---> return the list of possible target choices.          
On Windows system we advice the user to compile JETSPIN under the       
command-line interface Cygwin. Note that a Message Passing Interface     
Implementation is necessary to compile and run JETSPIN in parallel      
mode.                                                                   
                                                                        
Executing JETSPIN                                                       
                                                                        
To run JETSPIN, it is necessary first to ensure that the program is     
compiled (from the source sub-directory) and that the file input.dat    
is present in the execute subdirectory.                                 
All output data files will be returned to the execute sub-directory.    
Remember that the input file HAS TO BE NAMED 'input.dat' and put in     
the 'execute' Sub-directory. Few example input files are contained in   
the examples sub-directory which can be used as test cases.             
                                                                        
Example command to run JETSPIN in serial mode:                          
                                                                        
./main.x                                                                
                                                                        
Example command to run JETSPIN in parallel mode on 4 CPUs:              
                                                                        
mpirun -np 4 ./main.x                                                   
                                                                        
                                                                        
